      Dusk.
      A cornflower blue sky deepened around brother and sister as they sat by 
      their small campfire.  He was six, she was ten.  Each was cozy and drowsy 
      after a day of walking high in the mountains with their parents.
      "Tell me a story," the boy said to his sister for the second time, his 
      eyes now closing. "Your turn," she whispered again, the long trail and 
      thin air catching up to her now.
      And together, they fell silent, the only sound in the air now the crackle 
      of the fire and the gentle clinking of parents washing pots from dinner, 
      just out of sight. 
      Then suddenly, a spark caught the boy's eye. He nudged his sister awake.  
      The sky was black and something was in the fire. Like the shimmer of 
      crystal. Fiery, magical shimmers of color streaked through the yellow fire.
      Neither child spoke for a very long time.  Then the girl said, "It's like 
      dancing...."
      "And dancing we are!" shot back a voice from the fire. From the fire? It 
      was a voice in only the strangest sense of the word. High and thin, like 
      the squeal of pitch escaping from a burning log.
      The children were amazed, but not afraid.  This dancing light, this tiny 
      voice filled them with something just short of giggles but twice as deep. 
      "What is in our fire?" the girl asked, at last.  "Are you alive?"
      "As alive as every flame that licks the forest with its hot, tongue and 
      awakens the valley with its burning howl!" screeched the voice, through 
      the crackling.
      "That sounds scary." said the boy.
      "They're children. Remember children carry the Original Light," another 
      fiery voice called out, deeper and stronger than the first.
      "They are young, like you." The voice added.
      For a long time, there was no other sound but the snap and spit of the 
      logs. No other light than the flame and embers they has seen on so many 
      trips to the mountains.
      Then, just as the boy and girl began to nod off once more, it happened.  
      Spectacular fountains of colored light rose and swirled above the fire, 
      which had become larger now. On every log, the yellow flame was separating 
      into many more brilliant lights.  Swaying, leaping, swirling, their shapes 
      becoming like dancers.
      The girl and boy looked at each other in delight.  How was it that at this 
      moment, on this mountain, in the deep of black night, that they were 
      watching such wonder?
      "I can tell by your eyes we're the first you have seen," the lower voice 
      sighed warmly from the fire.  "The first! The first! Let us show them, 
      then, the glory of the Fire Fairies!" squealed the smaller voice. And the 
      sky became a theater of exquisite light and color.
      The boy, who had sometimes feared the dark, exclaimed to his sister, how 
      splendid and joyful to be surrounded in this way.  The girl wondered 
      aloud, where did these dancing lights come from and why were they here?
      "The Original Light." Said the deeper voice, plainly.  "You will lose it 
      soon, my child, as all the people of flesh and bone do in time. Unless you 
      learn how to tend it while you are still young enough to believe you need 
      it.
      Though she was only 10, the girl understood. Although it was hard to put  
      into words.
      "Hard to put into words, yes." Agreed the deep voice, knowing her thoughts 
      as she thought them. "But you must try, you see.  And often.  That is at 
      the heart of the tending."
      Perhaps it was the night air or the excitement of this sublime discovery, 
      but the girl suddenly spoke exactly what she thought.  "The Original Light 
      is the place in me where the joyful things live...like hope and wonder and 
      surprise and believing...like believing in this night." She said.
      The boy, though six, was especially full of the Light, and so, young as he 
      was, he spoke clearly of things that might confuse one much older.  "The 
      Original Light is my magic. And my power to see magic...like tooth fairies 
      and Easter bunnies and Santa and other things."
      "The Original Light," said the boy, with a smile that was missing two 
      front teeth, "is the power to see the most wonderful things.  Even when no 
      one else can see them.
      "Like...Martin Luther King."
      "Interesting!" "Delightful" "A dance for the boy!" sang many voices at 
      once from the fire. "Martin Luther King kept his light forever," said the 
      deep voice after a long, glimmering dance in, around and above the fire.  
      "The orginal light is about believing." 
      "I know." Said the boy, so young he still slept with a large, stuffed 
      tiger, even on trips to the mountain.
      "I know." Agreed the girl softly.
      "You know." sang the fairies, now spreading so far across the sky that the 
      boy wondered if others, if his parents, might be awoken by the light and 
      color and strange song.  "You KNOW."
      Sparkling, bursting rivers of fiery color filled the eyes of the boy and 
      girl. Brother and sister.  Side by side by the fire, which was nothing but 
      a charred piece of log when the distant fire of the sun began a new day on 
      the mountain.
      And the boy and the girl sat up. And yawned.  And wiggled out of their 
      sleeping bags and joined their parents for a breakfast of trout and 
      strawberry bars.
      And they said absolutely nothing about the night before. About whether it 
      was real.  Or dreamt.
      They knew.
     
